# ADAPTIVE THRESHOLDING

In **simple thresholding**, the threshold value is **global**, i.e., it is same for all the pixels in the image. **Adaptive thresholding is the method where the threshold value is calculated for smaller regions and therefore, there will be different threshold values for different regions.**

In OpenCV, you can perform Adaptive threshold operation on an image using the method **adaptiveThreshold()** of the **Imgproc** class. 

Following is the syntax of this method.

`adaptiveThreshold(src, dst, maxValue, adaptiveMethod, thresholdType, blockSize, C)`

This method accepts the following parameters −

**src**− An object of the class Mat representing the source (input) image.

**dst** − An object of the class Mat representing the destination (output) image.

**maxValue** − A variable of double type representing the value that is to be given if pixel value is more than the threshold value.

**adaptiveMethod** − A variable of integer the type representing the adaptive method to be used. This will be either of the following two values

-**ADAPTIVE_THRESH_MEAN_C** − threshold value is the mean of neighborhood area.

-**ADAPTIVE_THRESH_GAUSSIAN_C** − threshold value is the weighted sum of neighborhood values where weights are a Gaussian window.

**thresholdType** − A variable of integer type representing the type of threshold to be used.

**blockSize** − A variable of the integer type representing size of the pixelneighborhood used to calculate the threshold value.

**C** − A variable of double type representing the constant used in the both methods (subtracted from the mean or weighted mean).

```python

import cv2 as cv
import numpy as np

img = cv.imread('sudoku.png',0)
_, th1 = cv.threshold(img, 127, 255, cv.THRESH_BINARY)
th2 = cv.adaptiveThreshold(img, 255, cv.ADAPTIVE_THRESH_MEAN_C, cv.THRESH_BINARY, 11, 2);
th3 = cv.adaptiveThreshold(img, 255, cv.ADAPTIVE_THRESH_GAUSSIAN_C, cv.THRESH_BINARY, 11, 2);

cv.imshow("Image", img)
cv.imshow("THRESH_BINARY", th1)
cv.imshow("ADAPTIVE_THRESH_MEAN_C", th2)
cv.imshow("ADAPTIVE_THRESH_GAUSSIAN_C", th3)

cv.waitKey(0)
cv.destroyAllWindows()
```

## references

[tutorialspoint](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/opencv/opencv_adaptive_threshold.htm)
[youtube video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zf1F4cz8GHU&list=PLS1QulWo1RIa7D1O6skqDQ-JZ1GGHKK-K&index=17)
