# Feature Detection using Cascade Classifiers

- It is a machine learning based approach where a cascade function is trained from a lot of positive and negative images. It is then used to detect objects in other images.

- Before extracting features, the algorithm needs a lot of positive images and negative images to train the classifier. For this, Haar features are used. A Haar feature considers adjacent rectangular regions at a specific location in a detection window, sums up the pixel intensities in each region and calculates the difference between these sums.  

- Instead of repeating this for each & every pixel, an integral image is used. However large your image, it reduces the calculations for a given pixel to an operation involving just four pixels.

- Most of the calculated features are irrelevant. So, to select the best features, we apply each & every feature on all the training images. Each image is given an equal weight in the beginning. After each classification, weights of misclassified images are increased. Then the same process is done. New error rates & weights are calculated. The process is continued until the required accuracy or error rate is achieved or the required number of features are found.

- The final classifier is a weighted sum of these weak classifiers. The paper says even 200 features provide detection with 95% accuracy. Their final setup had around 6000 features.

- In an image, most of the image is non-face region. If it is not a face region, discard it in a single shot and focus on regions where there can be a face. This way, we spend more time checking possible face regions.

- For this they introduced the concept of Cascade of Classifiers. Instead of applying all 6000 features on a window, the features are grouped into different stages of classifiers and applied one-by-one. If a window fails the first stage, discard it. If it passes, apply the second stage of features and continue the process. The window which passes all stages is a face region.

# OpenCV for Object Detection
- OpenCV comes with a trainer as well as a detector.For the face classifier, the cascade function takes an grayscale image as an input and gives the location & size of face as output
> objects = cv2.CascadeClassifier.detectMultiScale(image, scaleFactor, minNeighbors)
- **image**: Matrix of the type CV_8U containing an image where objects are detected.
- **objects**: Vector of rectangles where each recrangle contains the detected object, the rectangles may be partially outside the original image.
- **scaleFactor**: Parameter soecifying how much the image size is reduced at each image scale
- **minNeighbors**: Parameter specifying how many nyighvors each candidate rectangle shoyld have to retain it.

```python
import cv2
                                                                            
face_cascade = cv2.CascadeClassifier('haarcascade_frontalface_default.xml') # Defining an object for the face classifier
cap = cv2.VideoCapture('test.mp4')	                                        # Add the location of video file here

while cap.isOpened():
    _, img = cap.read()
 
    gray = cv2.cvtColor(img, cv2.COLOR_BGR2GRAY)                            # The classifier needs a grayscale image
    faces = face_cascade.detectMultiScale(gray, 1.1, 4)                     # Gives the list of tuples containing location & size of faces

    for (x, y , w ,h) in faces:                                             # (x, y): Position of Face
        cv2.rectangle(img, (x,y), (x+w, y+h), (255, 0 , 0), 3)              # (w, h): Width & Height of Face
                                                                            # Draws rectangle around face(s)
    # Display the output
    cv2.imshow('img', img)
    if cv2.waitKey(1) & 0xFF == ord('q'):
        break

cap.release()
```
