# How to draw geometric shapes on images using Python OpenCV

```python
import numpy as np
import cv

img = cv2.imread('lena.jpg',0)  #reads an image in gray scale

img = cv2.line(img, (0,0), (255,255), (0,0,255), 5)
img = cv2.arrowedLineine(img, (0,0), (255,255), (0,0,255), 5) 

img = cv2.rectangle(img, (384,0), (510,128), (0,0,255), 5)
img = cv2.circle(img, (447, 63), 63, (0,255,0), -1)
font = cv2.FONT_HERSHEY_SIMPLEX
img = cv2.putText(img, 'OpenCV' , (10,500) , font, 4, (255,255,255), 10, cv2.LINE_AA) 

cv2.imshow('image',img) #shows an image into a window

cv2.waitKey(0) #wait for closing event
cv2.destroyAllWindows() #destorys all the windows
``` 

#### EXPLANATION:
##### 1] To draw a line 
img = cv2.line(img, (0,0), (255,255), (255,0,0), 5) #first argument is image, second is starting coordinates of point 1, third is the ending coordinates of point 2, fourth is the colour and fifth is the thickness. Here we will get a blue coloured line with thickness 5. Coordinates are to be given in the form of tuple. Colour is given in the BGR format. (255,0,0) gives blue channel, (0,255,0) gives green channel, (0,0,255) gives red channel. Thickness is provided in numbers. Here we see a black line because the image is loaded in gray scale. To load this image in colored format we will have to change img = cv2.imread('lena.jpg',0) t img = cv2.imread('lena.jpg',1). We can choose colour from google rgb color picker but note that it'll be in reverse order i.e., bgr and rgb.

##### 2] To draw a ray 
img = cv2.arrowedLineine(img, (0,0), (255,255), (0,0,255), 5) #all the arguments are same as that of line class. Here we will get a red coloured line.

##### 3] To draw a rectangle
img = cv2.rectangle(img, (384,0), (510,128), (0,0,255), 5) #first argument is image, second is point 1-top left vertex coordinate, third is point 2- bottom right vertex coordinate, fourth is the colour and fifth is the thickness. Here we will get a red unfilled coloured rectangle. By putting thickness argument as -1, we get a filled rectangle with the colour we specified.

##### 4] To draw a circle
img = cv2.circle(img, (447, 63), 63, (0,255,0), -1) #first argument is image, second is the center of the circle, third is the radius of the circle, fourth is the colour and fifth is the thickness. It gives a green coloured filled circle.

##### 5] To put a text
img = cv2.putText(img, 'OpenCV' , (10,500) , font, 4, (255,255,255), 10, cv2.LINE_AA)  #first argument is image, second is the text we want to put, third is the starting point of the text, fourth is the fontFace, fifth is the fontSize, sixth is the colour, seventh is the thickness and the eight can be lineType. Argument fontFace is given by creating a variable, here it is font. We will get the text OpenCV in white colour.

### To create an image using numpy zeros:
To create an image using numpy zeros method  we can use img = np.zeros(). To create a black image, first argument will be a list with first argument being height, second width and third will be 3 and second argument is datatype- np.uint8.

```python
import numpy as np
import cv

img = np.zeros([512,512,3], np.unit8)
cv2.imshow('image',img) #shows an image into a window

cv2.waitKey(0) #wait for closing event
cv2.destroyAllWindows() #destorys all the windows
``` 
